---
layout: page
title: Research
group: navigation
---

## Working papers

### *Gender, Justice and Deliberation: Women’s Voice in Post-Conflict Reconciliation*
Denisa Kostovicova, **Tom Paskhalis**

<p><a class="btn btn-info" data-toggle="collapse" href="#collapseAbstract2"
role="button" aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="collapseAbstract2">Abstract</a></p>
<div class="collapse" id="collapseAbstract2">
<div class="card card-body">
Gender-just quality peace is elusive despite women’s increased participation in peace-making. Exist-
ing research focuses on gender-responsive provisions in peace agreements and transitional justice instru-
ments. Turning to processes that lead to those gender-insensitive outcomes, we study women’s speaking
behaviour to find out why women’s representation in justice-seeking does not translate into influence.
We apply multi-method quantitative text analysis to an original corpus of over half a million words in six
languages from 20 civil society debates about reconciliation in the post-conflict Balkans. Empirical evi-
dence points to a gendered pattern of speech. Gender-specific topics, including silence on war-time sexual
violence, and male domination at the micro-level of turn-taking explain a gender-insensitive outcome,
rather than commonly assumed indicators of gender inequality such as women’s representation, including
the frequency and length of their contributions, or gender differences in the quality of deliberation.
</div>
</div>

### *The Least Unclear Language: How Avoiding Negatives Produces Positive Understanding*
**Tom Paskhalis**, Christian Müller

<p><a class="btn btn-info" data-toggle="collapse" href="#collapseAbstract3"
role="button" aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="collapseAbstract3">Abstract</a></p>
<div class="collapse" id="collapseAbstract3">
<div class="card card-body">
Designing  valid  and  reliable  methods  for  coding  large  quantities  of  text  is
an  inherently  complicated  process.  Manual  coding  of  political  texts  can  be
prone to a range of problems that can lead to unreliable results. In addition
to complex coding schemes, unreliability can result if the coders do not fully
process the sentence when deciding on a code. If this is the case, the cognit-
ive difficulty of processing sentences will influence the reliability of assigned
codes. The current literature on content analysis assumes that coding errors
are uncorrelated with the quantities of interest and are, to a large extent, a
function of the analytical framework. However, this can produce biased estim-
ated if some political actors are more likely to use certain language patterns.
Psycholinguistic theory suggests that sentences with negations are inherently
more difficult to process. By analyzing speeches from the US Congress and
the  UK  House  of  Commons  as  well  as  party  manifestos,  we  show  that  the
number of negated sentences varies considerably over time and in a substant-
ively  meaningful  way.  For  instance,  legislators  from  government  parties  use
fewer negations than their opposition counterparts. We address the question
of whether linguistic features affect human misclassification rates with a re-
analysis of crowd-coded party manifesto sentences and a coding experiment
where we directly randomize the presence of some linguistic features. Our res-
ults show whether coding errors can be tied to specific linguistic features of a
coding unit and thus whether those features have the potential to bias human
coding.
</div>
</div>

### *Data in Transitional Justice: Technological Advances, Theoretical Gains and Ethical Dilemmas*
Denisa Kostovicova, Rachel Kerr, Ivor Sokolic, Tiffany Fairey, Henry Redwood,
Jelena Subotic, **Tom Paskhalis**

<p><a class="btn btn-info" data-toggle="collapse" href="#collapseAbstract1"
role="button" aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="collapseAbstract1">Abstract</a></p>
<div class="collapse" id="collapseAbstract1">
<div class="card card-body">
New technologies provide scholars and practitioners with challenges and opportunities. On one
hand, there is ‘too much’ data, mostly, but not exclusively in digital archives and social media,
and new ethical concerns, around data sharing, use and attribution. On the other hand, new
datasets provide opportunities to address the problem of ‘too little’ evidence, and technology
can help us to process and analyze even the largest datasets relatively efficiently, using
innovative methods. In this paper, we consider these opportunities and challenges from the
perspective of transitional justice, interrogating the various ways in which technology can help
operationalize data and drive the research agenda forward. We consider a range of new data
technologies – digital archives, visual images, transcripts, social media (Facebook) and analytic
software – which make possible novel ways of thinking, and the potential for new questions and
insights, grounding theory in knowledge generated by transitional justice processes themselves.
</div>
</div>


## Work in progress

### *Interest Group Access to the Government: Who Gets It?*
**Tom Paskhalis**

### *Interest Group Strategies in the Digital Era: Lobbying and Social Media*
**Tom Paskhalis**
